Welcome to Gutenberg blocks for WordPress and ReactJS developers. In this course you'll learn everything
you need to know to create complex Gutenberg blocks and plugins from scratch.
My name is Ali and I will be instructing you throughout this course.
I've been working as a front-end web developer for years. Creating WordPress themes and plugins and also JavaScript
and ReactJS Web applications.
This course is designed for WordPress developers who are familiar with ReactJS and Redux and need
to learn everything about the new Gutenberg editor in WordPress.
At the end of this course you should be able to use React and Redux in order to create complex
Gutenberg blocks from scratch and also add features to the existing Gutenberg UI.
Before creating any blocks
we will discuss some design guidelines that you should follow when designing a block.
We will also take a look at how Gutenberg works behind the scenes and how your post is saved in the
database and so on.
Then we will have a webpack tutorial and that will help us compile and bundle our JavaScript and CSS
files in our Gutenberg plugin.
Next we will create our Gutenberg WordPress plugin where we will start by creating simple block.
And then as we build up some knowledge, we will start creating more complex blocks.
So from a very simple text block to a nested team members block where you can add team member blocks
and each block will have an image some text and social media links where you can drag and drop to re-order.
We will also create a dynamic block which is a block that generates dynamic content and not just some
static HTML.
We will explore Redux in Gutenberg.
How to use existing Redux stores and also how to create our own stores if we need to share some state
between multiple blocks.
Finally we will learn different ways that we can use in order to manage metadata in Gutenberg.
We will learn how to extend Gutenberg's UI and add some options in the sidebar to manage our metadata.
During the course
we will also integrate ESLint, Prettier and Husky in order to have an improved workflow.
In order to get the most out of this course,
you need to have some WordPress development experience. JavaScript, preferably ES6 and later versions
is also required.
You should also be familiar with the ReactJS. So concepts like components, state, lifecycle methods and
other basic React concepts should not be new to you.
Redux knowledge
is also ideal.
Not all blocks will require using Redux.
However in some blocks we will use Redux heavily. So it would be ideal
if you are familiar with Redux concepts like stores, actions, action creators and reducers.
So make sure to take a look at the course description and also the free preview videos and I look forward
to seeing you inside.